if you had to pick seo or content
marketing and you could only pick one
which one would you choose hey everyone
i'm neil patel and today i'm going to
break down content marketing versus seo
which one drives more traffic
before i get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
now question for you in the comments
below tell me what you think will drive
more traffic seo or content marketing
i'm waiting
what do you think is it seo is it
content marketing well
you're about to find out
a lot of people actually say this is a
false debate since seo and content
marketing should work together
and that's definitely true
when it comes to generating traffic to
your own website if seo is about
optimizing pages on your website
ultimately you'll be optimizing that
pages that at least have some content
whether it's your title maybe a
description it doesn't have to be a blog
post so there is truth to it in which
it's really hard to do seo if you don't
have content and a lot of people who
watch my channel already know seo to
some degree but with content marketing
most people don't
so if you want to learn content
marketing from the beginning there's a
video for you to watch it's the
beginner's guide to content marketing
but content marketing isn't just about
pushing content on your own website you
can actually do content marketing on
several different platforms video
content like youtube facebook social
media content podcast content live
events so we could say that content
marketing has more potential to generate
traffic than seo if you think about it
and more holistically beyond just
visitors you could be getting views to
your youtube videos engagement followers
even clicks on social media channels
people listening and subscribing to your
podcast
viewers in your live event
now most of my audience is focused
pretty heavily on generating traffic to
their own websites so let's dive in to
how content marketing seo should work
together
first off it's all about targeting the
right keywords and offering amazing
content that gives searches what they're
looking for when they search on google
this involves both seo and content
marketing skills
just think about it whenever you search
on google and you land on a website that
you don't like what do you do you click
the back button
that's why content marketing is
important yes you want the ranking but
you want to make sure that the content
matches what the intent is of the
searcher
now writing great headlines and meta
descriptions for your content really can
help no matter how great your content is
if it doesn't get clicked on it won't
generate traffic this is another way
that they work hand in hand right
knowing how to write and test headlines
is an seo skill by nature
and it supports your content marketing
efforts
another thing that you should be doing
is optimizing your content for
readability
and that not only involves creating
content but also knowing how to serve
that content piece in a way that's easy
to read by your visitors again this
skill both involves content marketing
and seo
structured data this one helps search
engines understand what your content is
all about and serving it to them among
the search results in the most relevant
way and that way when someone's
searching for let's say something like a
restaurant they can just see the star
rating right there
or the review rating right there that's
an example of what structured markups
can do because remember
all those people leaving reviews that's
content marketing
and those reviews
can help people better understand if
they want to go to that restaurant or
store or work with that business
another strategy that i love is internal
linking think about this if you're the
one writing your content you can improve
the user experience by linking to other
related pieces of content
and this helps with seo because those
pages are going to rank higher and
speaking of user experience there's also
improvements you can make from mobile
load time to optimizing corporate vitals
there are lots of technical measures
that you can implant for the best
experience when consuming your content
such as lazy load as people scroll more
images and content load as they don't
scroll
it doesn't load that way the page loads
faster especially when they're on mobile
devices
the bottom line is your content won't
perform well unless you do seo as well
sure you may get a social boost from it
in the short run but if you want
long-lasting traffic you need to focus
on seo and
content marketing
and of course content marketing can
drive you traffic without seo like
youtube podcast they're all examples of
content marketing but if you combine
both you'll do even better now if you
need help combining your content
marketing with your seo check out my ad
agency np digital
if you just need help
leave a comment below we're here to help
you i'll answer each and every single
question or try to and i wish you the
best of luck to getting more traffic
from seo
and content marketing